# WiFi Network Analysis using Wireshark and Python

## Overview
This repository contains Python scripts for analyzing WiFi network data captured using Wireshark. The analysis covers various aspects such as frames, RTS/CTS frames, data rates, SNR, LAN utilization, throughput, congestion effects, client performance based on RTS/CTS, and other observations.

## File Structure
- `question_a.py`: Analysis of frames (control and data) seen on the network.
- `question_b.py`: Analysis of RTS/CTS frames seen on the network.
- `question_c.py`: Analysis of data rates used by clients on the network and changes over time.
- `question_d.py`: Analysis of SNR on client links and the distribution of measured SNRs.
- `question_e.py`: Computation of LAN utilization and throughput using the methodology from [Jardosh+05], with observations on network congestion effects.
- `question_f.py`: Analysis of client performance discrepancies based on RTS/CTS usage.

## Usage
1. Clone the repository to your local machine.
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/your-username/WiFi-Congestiion.git
   cd WiFi-Congestiion
2. Install the required dependencies, including Python and necessary libraries (e.g., pandas, matplotlib).
   ```bash
    pip install pandas matplotlib
3. Run each Python script (question_a.py to question_g.py) to perform the respective analysis and generate plots.
   ```bash
   python question_a.py
   python question_b.py
   # Repeat for other scripts

## Notes 

- Each Python script contains the relevant tshark command used to generate the CSV file for analysis in the following format. 
  ```
  !tshark -r your_capture_file.pcap -Y "your_filter_expression" -T fields -e your_fields -E separator=, > output_file.csv
- Plots generated by the scripts visualize trends and provide insights into network performance and behavior.
- Feel free to explore and modify the scripts to suit your analysis requirements or add new functionalities.

## Authors
This application was created by Evangeli Silva esilva2@albany.edu, Abid Khawaja akhawaja@albany.edu and Isaac Menis imenis@albany.edu as part of the ICSI 525 course at the University at Albany SUNY.
